---
author: pfhawkins
categories:
- essay
- thought
date: 2008-08-30T09:23:29Z
slug: book-lending
status: publish
tags:
- books
- economics
- watchmen
title: Book Lending
url: /2008/08/30/book-lending/
wordpress_id: "49"
---

I have a new theory of book-lending. I've always been extremely recalcitrant
to lend out my precious, precious tomes. They are my babies. Letting someone
else read them who certainly doesn't appreciate them to the same degree, or in
the same kind, is a risky proposition.

My current reading pile includes a heaping helping of [Austrian
Economics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Austrian_economics). I love this
stuff. A sense of economics on this scale rewires your brain circuitry (what a
crappy, ubiquitous brain-as-turing-machine metaphor) in subtle and not so
subtle ways. It is some of the best non-fiction reading I've engaged in in
years.

I have to lend these books out. I simply must. I've attempted to get others
interested in them, with a little success. My brother, who is reliabel in
returning books I've lent him unread, raved about Ron Paul's [The Revolution:
A Manifesto](http://www.amazon.com/gp/redirect.html?ie=UTF8&location=http%3A%2
F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2FRevolution-Manifesto-Ron-Paul%2Fdp%2F0446537519%3Fie%3DUT
F8%26s%3Dbooks%26qid%3D1220101874%26sr%3D8-1&tag=phawkcom-20&linkCode=ur2&camp
=1789&creative=9325), which got me started on this kick. I'll next lend him
[Economics in One Lesson](http://www.amazon.com/gp/redirect.html?ie=UTF8&locat
ion=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2FEconomics-One-Lesson-Shortest-Understand%2Fd
p%2F0517548232%3Fie%3DUTF8%26s%3Dbooks%26qid%3D1220102088%26sr%3D8-1&tag=phawk
com-20&linkCode=ur2&camp=1789&creative=9325) by [Henry
Hazlitt](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Hazlitt). And I've gotten better
about lending out other sacred cows; after the Watchmen trailer hit the web I
lent [my copy](http://www.amazon.com/gp/redirect.html?ie=UTF8&location=http%3A
%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2FWatchmen-Alan-Moore%2Fdp%2F0930289234%3Fie%3DUTF8%26s%3
Dbooks%26qid%3D1220102292%26sr%3D8-1&tag=phawkcom-20&linkCode=ur2&camp=1789&cr
eative=9325) to a friend at work.

The realization, which has been slow in coming, dawns that I've read book X
once, and the odds of me rereading it in the next few years are pretty slim. I
can, therefore, safely risk the copy into the hand of others, where they can
better and more frequently fulfill their functions as books. A book is at its
best when its being read, when a man is bending his soul to the shape of
another's thought. The more capital I can pump into the marketplace of
thought, the better served the consumers of that capital; not humanity, but
flesh-and-blood humans. I've a couple books, mostly reference, that others can
read only in the confines of my abode, but they are now the exception rather
than the rule.

