---
author: pfhawkins
categories:
- essay
date: 2008-09-02T10:09:45Z
slug: undead
status: publish
tags:
- linguistics
- zombies
title: Undead
url: /2008/09/02/undead/
wordpress_id: "50"
---

"Un-" is a negative prefix denoting the opposite of the word to which it is
affixed. The nearest equivalent prefix is "non-", which denotes the same
thing. "Un-", however, also possesses a connotation (in many applications of
the prefix) of time, where previously the state or thing that is not, once
was.

In the case of zombies, the term "undead" is used to refer to them as a
collective whole, as a race or species. "Nondead" is less appropriate, for
while it would convey the fact that zombies are far more ambulatory than the
normative deceased, it fails to convey that the zombies were once dead; or, if
it does convey that, it does so with much less force.

(Another example of this connotation, although one based in marketing rather
than in organic etymology, holds for "uncola"; 7up has always been a
carbonated sweet water, and therefore _a_ cola, although it subverts the usual
formulae for what is deemed as cola, and in so doing is perceived [due to
intensive advertising more than anything] as having progressed from a state of
being cola to a state of being **beyond** cola.)

The utility of the "un-" prefix used in this manner cannot be overstated. For
clearly, the undead, while no longer deceased, also are no longer living. The
simple addition of this prefix drums up a word for a third state of being.

